It is also possible for repository administrators to create issue and pull request templates
(https://help.github.com/articles/helping-people-contribute-to-your-project/) (see Rule 3) to
customize and standardize the information to be included when contributors open issues.
GitHub issues are thus dynamic, and they pose a low entry barrier for users to report bugs and
request features. A well-organized and tagged issue tracker helps new contributors and users to
understand a project more deeply. As an example, one issue in the OpenMS repository
(https://github.com/OpenMS/OpenMS/issues/1095) allowed the interaction of eight develop-
ers and attracted more than one hundred comments. Contributors can add figures, comments,
and references to other issues and pull requests in the repository, as well as direct references to
code.
As another illustration of issues and their generic and wide application, we (https://github.
com/ypriverol/github-paper/issues) and others (https://github.com/ropensci/RNeXML/issues/
121) used GitHub issues to discuss and comment on changes in manuscripts and address
reviewers’ comments.
Rule 8: Make Your Code Easily Citable, and Cite Source Code!
It is a good research practice to ensure permanent and unambiguous identifiers for citable
items like articles, datasets, or biological entities such as proteins, genes, and metabolites (see
also Box 3). Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs) have been used for many years as unique and
unambiguous identifiers for enabling the citation of scientific publications. More recently, a
trend has started to mint DOIs for other types of scientific products such as datasets [12] and
training materials (for example [13]). A key motivation for this is to build a framework for giv-
ing scientists broader credit for their work [14,15] while simultaneously supporting clearer,
more persistent ways to cite and track it. Helping to drive this change are funding agencies
such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF) in the
United States and Research Councils in the United Kingdom, which are increasingly recogniz-
ing the importance of research products such as publicly available datasets and software.
A common issue with software is that it normally evolves at a different speed than text pub-
lished in the scientific literature. In fact, it is common to find software having novel features
and functionality that were not described in the original publication. GitHub now integrates
with archiving services such as Zenodo and Figshare, enabling DOIs to be assigned to code
repositories. The procedure is relatively straightforward (see https://guides.github.com/
activities/citable-code/), requiring only the provision of metadata and a series of administrative
steps. By default, Zenodo creates an archive of a repository each time a new release is created in
Box 3
Every repository should ideally have the following three files. The first and arguably most
important file in a repository is a LICENCE file (see also Rule 8) that clearly defines the
permissions and restrictions attached to the code and other files in your repository. The
second important file is a README file, which provides, for example, a short description
of the project, a quick start guide, information on how to contribute, a TODO list, and
links to additional documentation. Such README files are typically written in mark-
down, a simple markup language that is automatically rendered on GitHub. Finally, a
CITATION file to the repository informs your users how to cite and credit your project.
PLOS Computational Biology | DOI:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004947
July 14, 2016
8 / 11