C. Suggested Improvements for the Current Situation
We asked in the survey whether the participants considered 
that given continuous practices (planning, integration, testing, 
deployment, or monitoring) would help in resolving certain 
problems software projects might encounter (merge conflicts, 
long-running branches, build errors in commits, time-
consuming tests, or infrequent releases. Of the respondents, 
46% believed that continuous testing would reduce their 
challenges with time-consuming tests while 29% believed that 
continuous deployment would help with infrequent releases 
which were the two most prevalent challenges for them (fig 1, 
fig 2). In addition, 25% of the respondents believed that 
continuous integration would help with merge conflicts and 
that continuous planning would reduce long running branches.  
V. DISCUSSION
The
study 
participants 
saw 
the
prevailing 
siloed
organisational structure and culture as a major blocker for the 
adoption of DevOps. Although the idea of DevOps – bringing
development and operations together by enabling a cultural 
shift from siloed groups to cross-functional teams [3] – is 
beautiful, it is difficult to realise in large companies. Bass [1]
suggests that in such cases, the cultural change can be started 
from individual level: “even if the adoption focuses on a single 
development team and a few operators, it is important that the 
DevOps culture is adopted by all people involved”. Following 
this guideline, the company could bring together a bunch of 
interested people and start learning and experimenting, 
changing the culture together in a cross-functional team.
However, the interviewees mentioned that the organization can 
become a barrier even for such small efforts with its rules and 
bureaucracy. They told about tasks that could be shared 
between roles in practice but that it cannot be done because it is 
against company policies.
Chen [2] states that their biggest challenge in adopting 
continuous delivery was organizational. They found it helpful 
when the leadership team restructured the organisation to break 
down barriers between teams and promoted a collaborative 
culture. Gregory et al. [4] studied agile practitioners’ challenges 
and determined that organisation and culture are vast sources of 
challenges. Laukkanen et al. [5] mention organisational 
structure as a potential problem source in adopting continuous 
delivery. However, they conclude that there is too little 
research evidence available on the phenomenon to discuss it 
further in their literature review. Also, Chen [2] acknowledges 
the lack of research on introducing continuous delivery into an 
organisation. Thus, the topic obviously should be studied more 
to find ways to mitigate these challenges in large companies.
On development level, the participants felt that their most 
prevalent problems were related to infrequent releases and 
lengthy tests. They also saw that continuous practices could 
help them in overcoming these issues. The major barrier for 
taking DevOps tools and automation into use was that the 
participants worked with legacy systems and the only feasible 
solution in sight was to gradually replace those with new 
systems with proper architecture. This is also what Leppänen et 
al. [7] suggest. Several companies they interviewed saw legacy 
code as an obstacle that must be removed before adopting 
continuous deployment.
VI. CONCLUSION
This paper presented an insight into the journey of a large 
software service company towards continuous software 
engineering practices and DevOps. Many of the faced 
challenges were related to the siloed organizational structure 
and legacy software. However, some of the presented 
challenges could be mitigated by using continuous software 
engineering practices that should be implementable without 
changing the organizational structure. However, as DevOps is 
largely a cultural phenomenon, the organization must change 
significantly to gain its benefits. Adopting DevOps necessitates 
organizational learning, tearing down the siloes, automating the 
deployment pipeline and tight coupling of development and 
operations. Essentially it is a major cultural change for a large 
company. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We want to express our gratitude to the company contact 
person and all the interviewees and survey respondents in the 
company for their dedication and time.
REFERENCES
[1]
Bass, L., Weber, I., & Zhu, L. (2015). DevOps: A Software Architect's 
Perspective. Addison-Wesley Professional.
[2]
Chen L. 2015. Continuous Delivery: Huge Benefits, but Challenges Too. 
IEEE Software 32, 2 (Mar 2015), 50–54. 
[3]
Ebert, C., Gallardo, G., Hernantes, J., & Serrano, N. (2016). DevOps. 
IEEE Software, 33(3), 94-100.
[4]
Gregory, P., Barroca, L., Sharp, H., Deshpande, A., & Taylor, K. (2016). 
The challenges that challenge: Engaging with agile practitioners’ 
concerns. Information and Software Technology, 77, 92-104.
[5]
Laukkanen, E. Itkonen, J. and Lassenius,  C. 2017. Problems, causes and 
solutions when adopting continuous delivery - A systematic literature 
review. Information and Software Technology 82, Supplement C (2017), 
55 – 79. https: //doi.org/10.1016/j.infsof.2016.10.001
[6]
Laukkarinen, T., Kuusinen, K., & Mikkonen, T. (2018). Regulated 
software meets DevOps. Information and Software Technology, 97, 176-
178.
[7]
Leppänen, M., Mäkinen, S., Pagels, M., Eloranta, V. P., Itkonen, J., 
Mäntylä, M. V., & Männistö, T. (2015). The highways and country roads
to continuous deployment. IEEE software, 32(2), 64-72.
[8]
Lwakatare, L. E., Kuvaja, P., & Oivo, M. (2015). Dimensions of devops. 
In International Conference on Agile Software Development (pp. 212-
217). Springer, Cham.
[9]
Olsson, H. H., Alahyari, H., & Bosch, J. (2012, September). Climbing 
the" Stairway to Heaven"--A Mulitiple-Case Study Exploring Barriers in 
the 
Transition 
from 
Agile
Development 
towards 
Continuous 
Deployment of Software. In Software Engineering and Advanced 
Applications (SEAA), 2012 38th EUROMICRO Conference on (pp. 392-
399). IEEE.. 
[10] 3D]XU $QLþLü . 'LYMDN % 	 $UEDQDV .  3UHSDULQJ ,&7
Graduates for Real-World Challenges: Results of a Meta-Analysis. IEEE 
Transactions on Education, 60(3), 191-197.
[11] Smeds, J., Nybom, K., & Porres, I. (2015, May). DevOps: a definition 
and perceived adoption impediments. In International Conference on 
Agile Software Development (pp. 166-177). Springer, Cham.
[12] Virmani, M. (2015). Understanding DevOps & bridging the gap from 
continuous integration to continuous delivery. In Innovative Computing 
Technology (INTECH), 2015 Fifth International Conference on (pp. 78-
82). IEEE.  
63
View publication stats