and the two others are related to human and organisational 
issues and resource unavailability. Smeds et al. [11] report on 
DevOps adoption impediments in the industry. They include 
the lack of clear definition of DevOps which can lead to 
unclear goals for DevOps adoption and if the goals are unclear, 
they are also difficult to achieve. Customers might not want 
DevOps as they can be used to certain deployment and testing 
procedures and it would mean that they too need to change 
[11]. Developers themselves might be against DevOps as they 
need to learn new skills and knowledge and take new 
responsibilities [11]. Technical impediments include having 
monolithic architecture, development and testing environments 
not reflecting production environment which creates a risk of 
not being able to validate the software before it is deployed to 
production, and having multiple production environments [11].  
In other cases, there are external regulations which prohibits 
rapid releases, for example in the medical software domain, 
which is heavily regulated to ensure that a system does not
cause human harm [6].
III. METHOD
The study reported in this paper was conducted in a large
Danish software service house in two student projects 
supervised by a researcher
in fall 2017. The students 
participated a 5 ECTS research methodology course aimed at 
master level software engineering students at the University of 
Southern Denmark. The first author was in charge over the 
course and the rest of the authors were students on the course 
planning, conducting, analysing and reporting the study in the 
supervision of the first author. The first author contacted a 
number of companies with a few topics related to software 
engineering and the company either picked the topic they were 
most interested in or refused to participate. The first author then 
discussed with the company representative to find a relevant 
research question within the topic to be studied in the company. 
The companies were selected from a pool of Danish companies 
that had indicated their interest in working with software 
engineering students. The first author selected the research 
approach based on the research question and suitability in the 
organizational context (both a questionnaire and interview 
study in this case) and guided the participating companies by 
email on how to pick suitable research participants among the 
staff. The incentive for the participating companies was that 
companies got the student report of the studies they participated 
in and thus learned more about themselves and perhaps got 
some suggestions on how to improve from the current state.
The students working in groups of three to four selected a 
topic they wanted to investigate as their course project. The 
students created study plans including short literature reviews, 
interview guides, and informed consent forms in the 
supervision of the first author and had to have them approved 
by her before starting the data gathering. The students handled 
the communication with the companies in the supervision of 
the first author from there on. They also chose who they want 
to interview and agreed on the practicalities directly with the 
companies.
The objective of the research presented in this paper was to 
learn about the challenges and how to overcome those in a 
company that is in transition from using Scrum and Kanban to 
manage their agile software development
to continuous 
development and DevOps. Our research questions were as 
follows: 
1. What should a large company address when transitioning
towards continuous development and DevOps? 
2. What challenges can a large company face when 
transitioning towards continuous development and DevOps
and how to overcome those?
Two groups of students ran the research, each providing a 
detailed research plan before starting the data gathering. One 
group planned and executed a web survey and the other a series 
of interviews in the collaborator company. The survey targeted 
a section of 34 software professionals in the collaborator 
company. Four of them were picked for interviews based on
interest; two developers, a business architect and a tester. 
The students audio recorded the individual interviews, an
hour each, and transcribed them before analysing them 
thematically using NVivo. The survey target group consisted of
developers, testers, test managers, team leads, business 
specialists and project managers. The survey was realized using 
SurveyXact. It was piloted with five software engineering 
students external to the student groups conducting the research
for improvement and feedback before sending it out to the 
company. The anonymous survey was available for the 
respondents for two weeks and one remainder was sent in the 
middle. The mean completion time was 10 minutes. Ethical 
procedures were based on WHO recommendations on 
qualitative research in both substudies.   
Regarding validity and reliability of our research, we 
acknowledge that this paper reports a study conducted in only 
one company with a limited number of participants from a 
single section of the company. However, based on related 
literature and our experience we claim that many large software 
organizations are facing similar issues on their transition 
towards modern software engineering practices. Therefore, we 
are confident that our work can be insightful to such 
companies. The juniority of the research teams can pose a 
threat to research quality. To improve our research quality, we 
utilized method and researcher triangulation as the two groups 
utilized different methods and reviewed each other’s work.
Moreover, we piloted the data gathering methods and the work 
was conducted under supervision of a more experienced 
researcher who also cross-checked both the thematic and 
descriptive analyses. However, we acknowledge that some 
nuances and reasons behind the choices the company made 
remained unanswered
due to the inexperience of the 
investigators. The study would have benefited from a validating 
round of interviews or discussion over the findings with the 
company representatives. 
IV. RESULTS
We got 30 completed responses to the web survey with 
response rate of 88%. The job roles of the 30 web survey 
respondents were as follows: 47% were software developers,
13% testers, 13% business specialists, 7% team leads, 7% 
project managers, 3% test managers, and 10% did not provide 
their role. The respondents had the following working 
61