Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
6 of 14
(Agile), as in deployment and testing in operations (DevOps). However, despite DevOps
decreasing the gap between Developers and Operators, in terms of standardization, the
DevOps methodology lacks a simple approach or a roadmap to be followed for its imple-
mentation in an organization [41], leaving it up to companies to deﬁne their standards
and metrics. This can present as a complicating factor, very dependent on the maturity
level of organizations and work teams, which will have to deﬁne their speciﬁc integration
processes in a DevOps approach.
3. Methodology
This study adopts a qualitative methodology to explore the beneﬁts of the combined
adoption of DevOps and Agile. This type of methodology is used in the context of social
sciences and engineering and, according to Merriam and Tisdell [42], is concerned with a
level of reality that cannot be quantiﬁed, exploring meanings, aspirations, beliefs, values,
and attitudes that correspond to a deeper space of relationships, processes, and phenomena,
and cannot be reduced for operationalization of variables. Dyba et al. [43] recognize that the
software industry presents lines of research that are not only limited to exploring technical
software engineering issues, but also need to look at the challenges of the intersection
between technical and non-technical aspects. In this sense, adopting a purely quantitative
approach is insufﬁcient. Moreover, phenomena addressed in the ﬁeld of project develop-
ment in a DevOps and Agile paradigm are complex and unique. Therefore, the qualitative
approach adopted in this study allows for exploring and understanding the relationships
and activities performed by organizations in their software development activity.
In the scope of this study, twelve case studies were incorporated that report the
simultaneous inclusion of DevOps and Agile methodologies in their software development
teams. These cases correspond to reports and press releases from commercial vendors of
reference in this area. The data come from secondary sources and the authors have not
made any changes to the press releases that represent the view of each manufacturer. No
summarization of the press releases has been made. It cannot be guaranteed that there
is no risk of bias since the identiﬁed beneﬁts come from press releases from commercial
companies in the area and that have commercial goals in the market. However, to minimize
this risk, external and internal validity mechanisms were used. To ensure external validity,
multiple case studies were used of companies in different geographic areas, and to ensure
internal validity, the same identiﬁer was used to associate similar beneﬁts between the
case studies.
Table 2 presents brief descriptions of the proﬁles of the case studies. In general, it can
be concluded that the area of activity of the organizations is similar through the offer of IT
products and services based on cloud architecture. We also highlight the offer of consulting
services in the ﬁeld of web and mobile development, and the offer of complementary
services in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelligence, big data, and cybersecurity.
Thematic analysis is an interpretive data analysis method widely used in the social
sciences and engineering and was adopted in the context of this study to identify common
beneﬁts in the combined adoption of DevOps and Agile. Flexibility is, according to Braun
and Clarke [44], one of the beneﬁts of thematic analysis. Through its theoretical freedom,
the thematic analysis provides a ﬂexible and useful research tool that can potentially
provide a rich and detailed set of information about the data. Figure 1 shows the process
of conducting data. The step begins with the coding process in which one coded the
advantages present in each case study report. After that, an iterative process follows in
which common themes of the advantages among the case studies are identiﬁed. Finally, the
last step consists of accounting for the beneﬁts identiﬁed in the case studies. This approach
allows for a ranking of the top beneﬁts.