Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
8 of 14
 
Figure 1. Thematic analysis process (authors own illustration).
4. Results
The twelve case study reports associated with each company presented in Table 2
were thoroughly read and each identiﬁed beneﬁt was assigned a unique identiﬁer. Each
theme is identiﬁed by the acronym “BF” and a number is associated to differentiate each
beneﬁt. Common themes have the same acronym. A brief description of how each beneﬁt is
understood in the case studies is also included. Table 3 presents the identiﬁcation process of
the themes associated with each case study. Table 3 shows the themes for all the case studies
mentioned in Table 2. We highlight the existence of themes that are common to several case
studies. Although the themes are common, the vision of each case study in relation to them
has some relevant oscillations, which indicate a complementary vision of the institutions
present in the case studies. For example, in CS1 time to market emerges due to increased
collaboration between teams, whereas in CS8 process integration is highlighted. Something
similar emerges in relation to cost. Cost reduction is understood in CS6 as achieved from
the existence of multi-skilled human resources, whereas in CS8 cost reduction is motivated
by the effects of increased team performance.
Table 3. Identiﬁed beneﬁts themes in the case studies.
ID
Beneﬁt
CS1
(BF1) Time to market: greater collaboration between teams reduces software
delivery cycles
(BF2) Automation: the combined development and production process becomes more
automated to meet market needs
CS2
(BF2) Automation: continuous delivery and integration combined with fast releases
lead to the automation of activities
(BF3) Communication: promote constant communication between development and
operational team
(BF4) Mindset and culture: establishment of collaboration among teams
CS3
(BF1) Time to market: through continuous delivery from the development phases
(BF5) Planning: the product backlog now includes services are products that need to
be deployed, scalable, maintained, monitored, and supported as a service
CS4
(BF4) Mindset and culture: increase the quality of collaboration
(BF6) Visibility: more visibility for release and upgrade processes
(BF7) Risk mitigation: better identiﬁcation of risks in the context of each sprint
(BF8) Software quality: decrease the existence of software errors and helps to launch
faster patches
CS5
(BF2) Automation: contribution for the implementation of Agile ﬂuency model which
focus on value, transparency, and alignment
(BF3) Communication: amplify feedback loops between development and
operational team
(BF4) Mindset and culture: looks to the performance of all system instead of local
departments. Furthermore, promotes learning from failure.
(BF5) Planning: increase the planning dimension of unplanned events typically found
in the context of operational teams