Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
2 of 14
the delivered artifact meets the needs and making the respective corrections with low risk
and cost.
The main social and human factors involved in the adoption of Agile methodologies
are the impact on organizational culture, namely by the collaborative culture imposed
on developers and the implications of being embedded in an Agile team [7,8]. Constant
feedback to all team participants on the activities being carried out, and the commitment to
the team’s goals, are highlighted in Junker et al. [9] as key elements for a well-functioning
Agile team. Feedback and collective awareness are essential as opposed to individualism
and lack of communication. This view is also conﬁrmed by Sweetman and Conboy [10]
when they highlight that feedback loops are the essence of the empirical and complex
processes found in software engineering that require continuous adaptation based on
learning obtained daily. Furthermore, complex projects are very unpredictable and therefore
need a process that incorporates unpredictability [11].
Inspired by the success of Agile methods, the DevOps (Development and Operations)
movement emerged that aims to take this line of reasoning to a higher level. This movement
comes to break the traditional culture where there was almost no interaction between teams
and, as highlighted by Luz et al. [12], the goal is to create a culture of collaboration between
development and operations teams that allows increasing the ﬂow of completed work.
In summary, it is intended to increase the frequency of deployments while increasing
the stability and robustness of the production environment. Beyond a cultural change,
the DevOps movement also focuses on the practices of automating the various activities
required to deliver quality code into production, such as creating environments for testing,
automating testing, conﬁguring infrastructure, data migration, auditing, and security,
among others [13,14].
In the literature, we can essentially ﬁnd studies on DevOps that explore ways to align
development teams with operations [15], the beneﬁts that this methodology can bring to
organizations [16], and the challenges that are posed [17]. However, there is a research gap
in the characterization of the simultaneous adoption of Agile and DevOps in organizations.
In this dimension, the number of available scientiﬁc studies is limited and they mostly
present individual views of their implementation, which does not allow for a sufﬁciently
comprehensive characterization of the beneﬁts of their combined adoption. We acknowl-
edge the study conducted by Hemon et al. [18], which characterizes the different phases of
Agile to DevOps transition (e.g., Agile, ongoing integration, and constant delivery), while
Melgar et al. [19] explore the beneﬁts of the combined SCRUM-DevOps approach in terms
of increasing speed during the deployment process and increasing the quality of software
processes. In both studies, there is just one empirical case study, which makes it difﬁcult
to generalize the ﬁndings. In this sense, this study seeks to bridge this research gap and
presents an analysis of the beneﬁts that can be found by the combined approach of DevOps
and Agile considering a comprehensive set of twelve case studies that are representative of
practices of simultaneous adoption of both methodologies. This approach supported by
multiple case studies avoids the individual limits of each company’s vision and reduces
the risk of bias, and allows comparing, grouping, and systematizing the main beneﬁts of
the combined adoption of both methodologies.
The rest of this manuscript is organized as follows: Initially, a theoretical contextual-
ization of the DevOps model is performed and the similarities between DevOps and Agile
are explored. Next, the methodology and associated methods adopted in the study are de-
scribed. This is followed by the presentation of the results and discussion of their relevance
to the perception of the beneﬁts of the combined adoption of DevOps and Agile. Finally,
the conclusions are enumerated. It is also in this last phase of the manuscript that the
limitations of the study are addressed and some suggestions for future work are provided.