work, we build on GitHub to gain insights into how developers use several
CI/CD technologies. The information collected can guide future research on
possible improvements to the DevOps process and in particular for CI/CD.
With this work, we thus aim to answer the following research questions:
RQ1 What characterizes the current landscape of CI/CD?
In addressing Research Question 1 (RQ1), our objective is to gain a com-
prehensive understanding of the prevailing utilization of diverse CI/CD
technologies. Our aim is to identify patterns that can serve as catalysts
for future (research) endeavors, both within industrial and academic con-
texts.
From our sample of repositories, containing 612557 individuals, we know
that about 32.7% include some CI/CD technology. In Section 4 we ex-
plore the most used technologies and their relationship with programming
languages. Indeed, projects in some languages do not rely often on CI/CD
which deserves further investigation and possibly better solutions for those
developers.
RQ2 Can a single CI/CD technology adequately meet the needs of a specific
project?
With RQ2, our goal is to understand to which extent the technologies can
serve the projects’ needs.
Indeed, we have discovered that 30271 projects use at least two technolo-
gies and that some (few cases) use up to 13 different technologies at the
same time. This motivates further investigation on the interoperability of
the different technologies and the support developers have to work with
multiple CI/CD technologies at the same time.
RQ3 What is the evolution of CI/CD usage over time?
With this research question, our goal is to find how projects change over
time regarding the CI/CD technologies used. Our goal is also to get an
overview of changes in pipelines over time.
Over the years, there have been two major technologies used. Moreover,
it is clear that developers often change technologies. Since currently there
is little support for these evolutions, this paves a very interesting path for
future research.
We organize the rest of the document as follows: Section 2 presents several
works related to our own.
Those works focus on mining information about
several DevOps aspects in various software repositories. In Section 3, we present
the methodology used for this work. This methodology includes how we found
the CI/CD technologies for this study, what information we have collected from
the repositories and how it is related to our research questions, how we used the
GitHub API to collect information from the repositories, and how we organized
the data collected from the said repositories.
In Sections 4, 5, and
6, we
3