Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
7 of 14
Table 2. Proﬁles of the case studies.
ID
Country
Description
CS1
India
A company that operates in the IT outsourcing services market in building
technological solutions in areas such as web apps, mobile apps, cloud
strategy, analytics and business intelligence, testing, quality assurance
services, and Agile project management. Their report looks to different
ways to enable DevOps in Agile environments.
CS2
USA
Information technology company and advanced training for IT
professionals in the ﬁelds of programming and technological development.
Their report explores the relevance of Agile principles for deployment
activities.
CS3
Canada
A global company that offers consulting services to help companies adjust
their development teams by integrating new practices and technologies.
Their report explores how Agile practices should be updated considering
the needs of operations teams in organizations.
CS4
USA
Cloud services provider offering technology infrastructures based on
public cloud, private cloud, hybrid cloud, and multi-cloud. Their report
explores the difference and similarities between both paradigms.
CS5
Australia
Australian software company that develops products for software
developers, project managers, and other software development teams.
Their press release presents how automation processes can be
implemented using a combination of both paradigms.
CS6
USA
Global business and technology consulting ﬁrm dedicated to helping
organizations leverage emerging technologies and the latest business
management thinking to achieve competitive advantage and mission
success. Provides consulting and training services, primarily targeted at
executives. Their article explores the differences between the two
paradigms and suggests points of convergence between them.
CS7
USA
Company specialized in the dissemination of technological information in
the ﬁeld of information and communication technologies. Their press
release looks to important aspects observed while combining DevOps and
Agile.
CS8
USA
Multinational company in information technologies that develops
automation solutions and advanced knowledge in areas such as
automation, enterprise DevOps, data-driven business, and adaptive
cybersecurity. Their article explores the role that Agile practices can play in
DevOps.
CS9
Switzerland
Company that operates mainly in the European market in providing
captivating scalable cloud-based solutions. Their article looks at the
isolated beneﬁts of each paradigm and tries to predict the beneﬁts of their
combined adoption.
CS10
India
Company that develops technological solutions for the education ﬁeld and
relies on the application of the Agile scalability paradigm, especially the
SAFe model. Their article explores the change-driven management
approach and looks at how DevOps and SCRUM address this challenge.
CS11
Germany
IT company that operates in the global market implementing cloud
solutions, DevOps, software testing, quality assurance, artiﬁcial
intelligence, and big data. Their press release looks at the problems in
software engineering that the joint adoption of both paradigms can solve.
CS12
UK
A consulting company that aims to optimize work processes in
organizations using cloud solutions, slack, and Trello services. Their press
release looks at the role of the cloud and Agile methodologies in
developing the DevOps paradigm.