Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
9 of 14
Table 3. Cont.
ID
Beneﬁt
CS6
(BF1) Time to market: deployment chains cut the time needed to get a product
to market
(BF9). Cost: combining people and activities makes people more multi-skilled with
future reduction in human resource costs
CS7
(BF2) Automation: increasing code size and complexity encourages
process automation
(BF3) Communication: communication between both teams is constant with
feedback loops
(BF10): Software quality: functional and load tests are both considered
(BF11). Efﬁciency: project management considers performance metrics that result from
combined methods in both areas
CS8
(BF1) Time to market: integrated processes make order fulﬁllment faster
(BF6) Visibility: increased visibility over data and processes
(BF9) Cost: increased productivity and team performance
CS9
(BF2) Automation: increase speed and agility to attend continuous
requirements changes
(BF3) Communication: smooth communication between the team and the customers
by continual iteration
(BF12) Flexibility: agility in the face of continuous requests for revision becomes
important to make the organization competitive
CS10
(BF2) Automation: implementation of a paradigm based in continuous integration,
continuous delivery, and continuous deployment
(BF3) Communication: by fostering communication in the teams, constant
collaboration is promoted
CS11
(BF2): Automation: shorten the development cycle by promoting the automation of
repetitive tasks
(BF10) Software quality: focus on end-product quality
CS12
(BF2) Automation: better performance when compared against on-premise DevOps
automation. Furthermore, it contributes to eliminates human errors
(BF12) Flexibility: it empowers each stage of the application delivery lifecycle
Table 4 summarizes the comparative analysis of the identiﬁed beneﬁts. All previously
identiﬁed beneﬁts are mapped. The “ranking” attribute allows us to understand the
relative importance of the beneﬁts and to perceive which ones are transversal to several
case studies and which ones emerge only in a very speciﬁc context of each organization.
The beneﬁts related to automation (BF2), communication (BF3), and time to market (BF1)
stand out. These are the three main beneﬁts that can be found in the combined adoption
of Agile and DevOps. Conversely, there are other beneﬁts that are identiﬁed in a smaller
number of case studies, namely, those related to efﬁciency (BF11), risk mitigation (BF7),
and software quality (BF8). These beneﬁts are less relevant and arise in the speciﬁc context
of each organization, which indicates that they are more difﬁcult to replicate in other
software companies.