Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
11 of 14
Finally, it is recognized that in recent years there has been a growing adoption of the
term “DevOps culture”, as a counter position to DevOps implementations based only on
tools. In DevOps culture, it is advocated that software development and infrastructure
teams work together towards the same goal [56,57]. As Clavier and Kaminski [58] argue,
DevOps not only optimizes development processes but changes the way employees think
about their products and interact with customers. The combined Agile and DevOps
approach allows the leveraging of these beneﬁts by enhancing empathy among team
members and unites sectors that previously worked independently and without personal
connection. Furthermore, as Venugopal [59] acknowledges, when there is trust between
teams, then it also increases the freedom that professionals have to experiment and innovate,
without the problems of incompatibility and miscommunication as there would be with
separate teams.
6. Conclusions
This study demonstrates that the Agile and DevOps paradigms are not incompatible
but can bring beneﬁts to organizations when properly aligned. While Agile brought
about a fast delivery model aligned with customer expectations, DevOps optimized this
system. In this sense, an alternative that usually gives great results is the adoption of both
methodologies. They not only complement each other but also help companies to face
changes in a team.
Changing the strategy and methodology of a team can be a delicate process full of
obstacles. Therefore, organizations must address this challenge in a cross-cutting way
within the organization to avoid isolated silos that do not contribute to collaborative work.
Agile creates a space for more agile work with partial deliveries, while DevOps creates an
environment conducive to managing these processes, with effective communication.
This study offers both theoretical and practical relevant contributions. In the theoretical
dimension, this study has enabled the identiﬁcation of a set of beneﬁts of the combined
adoption of both paradigms through the adoption of multiple case studies of software
companies in the international market. The study identiﬁes a total of 12 beneﬁts and allows
us to explore the relative relevance of each of them. From a practical perspective, the
beneﬁts identiﬁed are relevant to companies that, having adopted Agile and DevOps alone,
have not yet taken steps towards the combined adoption of both models. The ﬁndings of
the study made it evident that the two models are not incompatible, but when combined
they can amplify their impacts on organizations.
Limitations and Future Research Directions
This study presents some limitations. Firstly, the case studies included in this study
come from secondary sources, which does not allow us to deepen the knowledge on the
themes with the use of interviews that may evidence the application of both paradigms.
Furthermore, the case studies come from companies with commercial purposes, which
may not give a totally unbiased view of the beneﬁts to the organizations or represent very
speciﬁc groups of the population. Nevertheless, this study adopted external and internal
validation mechanisms to reduce this risk of bias. As future work it is recommended that
the business view be complemented with a scientiﬁc view of the beneﬁts of combining
DevOps and Agile and, to this end, a systematic review of the literature in the ﬁeld can be
conducted. Moreover, the qualitative approach used does not allow us to systematically
identify all the advantages and make a rigorous quantiﬁcation of these beneﬁts. As future
work, a quantitative study based on a large dataset is suggested to identify the advantages
of the combined adoption of both paradigms considering also different sectors of activity
of the organizations. It would also be relevant to consider the degree of maturity in the
implementation of Agile and DevOps in these organizations and, thus, explore its relevance
in the beneﬁts found, since it is expected that some of the beneﬁts may be more easily
achieved by organizations with lower levels of maturity in these processes.