Table 4: Deprecated technologies lacking documentation.
D2iQ Dispatch
3.3
The Repositories with CI/CD Technology
Our analysis focused on the sample acquired earlier, specifically the contents
of the latest commit to the main branch of each repository. To ensure repro-
ducibility, we recorded the SHA of the file tree (available in the database of our
dataset). A total of 200,023 repositories were identified as utilizing one or more
of the CI/CD technologies identified in the previous section. The comprehensive
dataset containing the repositories and the corresponding technologies is also
made available for further examination [Author(2023a)]. We use this dataset
to analyze the state of CI/CD according to the most recent snapshots. The
code used to create this dataset and the figures to support our answers to the
research questions are also available [Anonymous(2023a)].
To examine the past state of CI/CD, we retrieved snapshots of repositories
over time and ran the same CI/CD technologies analysis on each snapshot.
The comprehensive dataset containing the repositories and the correspond-
ing snapshots and technologies is also made available for further examination
[Author(2023c)]. The code used to create this dataset and the figures to support
our answers to the research question are also available [Anonymous(2023b)].
We ran a test on a random sample of 85 repositories to choose the time inter-
val for the analysis. Snapshots were retrieved at 90-day, 180-day, and 365-day
intervals for each repository. For each snapshot, we then ran CI/CD technolo-
gies analysis. Our goal was to determine the number of changes in the CI/CD
tech stack we would lose by increasing the retrieval interval, a change being
any difference in the CI/CD stack compared to the previous snapshot. For the
sample, we found 270 stack changes at a 90-day sampling interval, 217 changes
at a 180-day sampling interval, and 179 changes at a 365-day sampling interval.
From a 90-day to a 180-day rate, there was a 19.6% decrease in the detected
changes, and from a 180-day to a 365-day rate, there was a 17.5% decrease in
detected changes. A lower sampling interval, or retrieving all commits for each
repository, was not feasible due to GitHub API rate limits and the time for the
study. Based on these results, we determined to run our analysis at a 90-day
sampling rate.
A subset of the previously selected repositories was analyzed. The inclusion
criteria were repositories where CI/CD technologies were detected in the latest
commit and created before July 16, 2023 (so they were at least 90 days old).
This resulted in a subset containing 197504 repositories.
For each selected repository, the first commit was retrieved. A sequential
iterative process was employed, where the latest commit (if one existed) was
retrieved for each 90-day interval starting from either January 1, 2012 or the
repository’s first commit date, whichever was later. This process continued until
the date of the repository’s last update at the time of retrieval. All commits
were retrieved from the default branch of the repository. The git trees of the
8