

Citation: Almeida, F.; Simões, J.;
Lopes, S. Exploring the Beneﬁts of
Combining DevOps and Agile.
Future Internet 2022, 14, 63. https://
doi.org/10.3390/ﬁ14020063
Academic Editor: Davide Tosi
Received: 12 January 2022
Accepted: 17 February 2022
Published: 19 February 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁl-
iations.
Copyright:
© 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed
under
the
terms
and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
future internet
Article
Exploring the Beneﬁts of Combining DevOps and Agile
Fernando Almeida 1,*
, Jorge Simões 1
and Sérgio Lopes 2
1
Polytechnic Higher Institute of Gaya (ISPGAYA) and INESC TEC, 4400-103 Porto, Portugal;
jsimoes@ispgaya.pt
2
Polytechnic Higher Institute of Gaya (ISPGAYA) and Distance Education and eLearning Laboratory-Open
University (LE@D-UAb), 1269-001 Lisbon, Portugal; ssargo@ispgaya.pt
*
Correspondence: almd@fe.up.pt
Abstract: The combined adoption of Agile and DevOps enables organizations to cope with the
increasing complexity of managing customer requirements and requests. It fosters the emergence
of a more collaborative and Agile framework to replace the waterfall models applied to software
development ﬂow and the separation of development teams from operations. This study aims to
explore the beneﬁts of the combined adoption of both models. A qualitative methodology is adopted
by including twelve case studies from international software engineering companies. Thematic
analysis is employed in identifying the beneﬁts of the combined adoption of both paradigms. The
ﬁndings reveal the existence of twelve beneﬁts, highlighting the automation of processes, improved
communication between teams, and reduction in time to market through process integration and
shorter software delivery cycles. Although they address different goals and challenges, the Agile and
DevOps paradigms when properly combined and aligned can offer relevant beneﬁts to organizations.
The novelty of this study lies in the systematization of the beneﬁts of the combined adoption of Agile
and DevOps considering multiple perspectives of the software engineering business environment.
Keywords: software development process; operations; software engineering; information system
development; team structure
1. Introduction
The software development process can be viewed as a set of tasks required to produce
high-quality software. The literature shows that the quality of the software produced
reﬂects the way the process was carried out [1–3]. Although several software development
processes exist, generic activities common to all of them stand out, as Sommerville [4] high-
lights, such as software speciﬁcation (e.g., requirements deﬁnition, software constraints),
software development (e.g., software design and implementation), software validation
(e.g., software must be validated to ensure that the implemented functionality conforms
to what was speciﬁed), and software evolution (e.g., software evolves as per customer
need). The software development process provides an interaction between users and
software engineers, between users and technology, and between system engineers and
technology. In this sense, software development is an interactive learning process, and the
result is an embodiment of knowledge gathered, transformed, and organized as the process
is conducted.
A software development methodology includes a set of activities that assist in the
production of software. These activities result in a product that demonstrates how the
development process was conducted. Agile methodologies arise from the need to over-
come the difﬁculties and disadvantages of applying traditional methodologies in project
management and implementation. The Agile methodology assumes short periods of time
between each delivery to ensure early and continuous delivery of software susceptible to
evaluation [5]. In [6] it is also recognized that software implementation according to this
paradigm is interactive and incremental, enabling early conﬁrmation of whether or not
Future Internet 2022, 14, 63. https://doi.org/10.3390/ﬁ14020063
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet