Future Internet 2022, 14, 63
5 of 14
Table 1. Problems with Agile development and DevOps solution (adapted from [35]).
Problem with Agile Development
DevOps Solution
Delivery of new features to the customer is
often delayed.
DevOps tools are used to test and release new
features as they are completed.
Completed software components are not
compatible with each other.
Open interfaces and test automation make it
possible to divide development into
independent yet compatible parts.
Quality of the product is not ensured properly
prior to release.
DevOps tools and practices help automating
quality assurance and reduce the need for
repetitive manual work.
New features break old functions.
The quality of existing functions is ensured
quickly and automatically after each change.
Budget goals and deadlines are missed.
The tools and procedures of DevOps increase
the transparency and predictability of the
development work.
Developer teams and IT operations crews are
not cooperating.
Developer teams and IT operations crews agree
upon responsibilities together. Their goals
are uniﬁed.
In the context of the Agile method workﬂow, under the SCRUM framework imple-
mentation, DevOps presents four metrics [36] that are directly related to software delivery
through enhanced software engineering: i—waiting time, ii—deployment frequency, iii—
mean time to restore (MTTR), and iv—change failure percentage. These metrics can be
implemented in the execution cycle of the Agile by SCRUM approach, enhancing the
qualitative process of the organizational performance of software companies, in meeting
the planned objectives, because it increases in a relevant way the level of monitoring and
maturity of the activities performed in each work cycle.
Organizations that implement Agile methodologies focus on productivity and process
optimization by reducing execution time [37]. However, software development environ-
ments are shrouded in constant change, with continuous interactions of teams that focus
on deliverable products. DevOps processes can improve the interactivity of the develop-
ment teams, improving the integration process of the stakeholders of a project in an Agile
environment, facilitating the continuity of the processes in a more balanced and stable way.
According to [38], the DevOps culture can be implemented to carry out an incident
management process for deliverable products, allowing Agile development teams to be
continuously monitored, because it integrates the software deployment process by monitor-
ing operations, as provided by the DevOps framework. Therefore, DevOps enhances the
stability of the Agile cycle, as we mentioned before; that is, while Agile focuses on produc-
tivity in product deliverables in a more technical approach around ICT [39], DevOps directs
its processes to checking the level of effectiveness of what is produced in the work cycles
of the development teams. Therefore, in this central aspect of integration, there will be a
tendency toward an improved qualitative increment in the scope of Software Engineering.
Within what we have discussed so far, it was veriﬁed that the processes originated
from Agile methodologies are the structural base of DevOps [18,39], and that the union
of these methodologies increases the level of intelligence of the information system that is
generated in the work cycles, because it implements several functions, such as Developers,
System Architects, Product Owners, Release Engineers, and Testers. Therefore, the level of
collaboration is elevated with professionals that are beyond the initially foreseen roles, for
example, in the SCRUM approach that is currently used in Agile, promoting the creation of
cross-functional teams in the context of the DevOps approach.
The approach of development teams that implement Agile methodologies, to opera-
tions teams as proposed by DevOps, tends to accelerate the software release process, with
studies [40] indicating that in addition to acceleration, there is an increase in software
quality in terms of reliability and maintainability. As a result, the deliverable product meets
the conditions foreseen in the essential objectives of the project, from software development