10 
 
Scrum cycle main work and questions  
 
In these two pictures is shown the sprint cycle and the main steps to consider in every phase 
of the cycle. The Scrum cycle has seven main phases in the development process and respon-
sible roles for each stage. 
 
Sprint is a unit of development. Estimated Timeline Last between 24 hours and one month. In 
the Sprint Backlog, development team estimates timeline for every feature they have to de-
liver during the Sprint. Divides features on separate units, one feature as one unit. The 24h 
Scrum starts with short 15 min stand-up meeting. The team first talk, what is done and what 
will do during 24hour sprint, and what are the problems. During 24 hours, Sprint development 
team deliver features based on the feature priorities defined on 24h scrum meetings and de-
livering the features. One’s feature has met its requirements it has the definition as done. 
 
Ones in 30 days or in a week team demos done features, which also shows how successful was 
iteration(sprint), how well development process is progressing and how successful the estima-
tion. Work has to be accepted by the Product Owner. After that, it can be delivered as a 
product. Every Sprint and every done delivery of the feature is a deliverable piece of ready 
software. All possible bugs (problems in code) and small changes always joined to the next 
sprint.  
 
The other bigger issues and requests added to the Product Backlog. At the start of product 
development process, after checking and improvement of the Sprint, the development team 
have a review discussion about what went well and badly during the sprint, and what they 
still have to improve.  
 
4 
CI-Continuous Integration 
 
“Continuous Integration is a software development practice where members of a team inte-
grate their work frequently; usually each person integrates at least daily - leading to multiple 
integrations per day. Each integration is verified by an automated build (including test) to 
detect integration errors as quickly as possible” – Martin Fowler 
 
4.1 
Performance cycle of CI 
 
CI (Contentious Integration) Set of processes to automate and integrate new builds. Every-
thing in CI starts from developers and other members same as database, build and other 
teams who make changes to the program source code.