www.ijcrt.org                                                                 © 2017 IJCRT | Volume 5, Issue 3 August 2017 | ISSN: 2320-2882 
IJCRT1133441 
International Journal of Creative Research Thoughts (IJCRT) www.ijcrt.org 
946 
 
DevOps automation and Agile methodology  
Sikender Mohsienuddin Mohammad 
Sr. Associate, KPMG LLP, Department of Information Technology, Wilmington University 
419 V street, Apt D, Sacramento, CA 95818 
 
Abstract 
In recent times, interest in the collaboration between 
technology and IT activities which is part of the DevOps 
phenomenon has been on the rise among, software-engineering, 
practitioners, and scientists. However, DevOps is also associated 
with agile as well as continuous software development delivery 
approaches, given its increasing importance. The study of 
DevOps follows which are the roots, acceptance, integration, and 
priorities with agile, lean, and ongoing delivery strategies in 
software development.   DevOps phenomenon was influenced by 
the development of agile software, based on lean principles. 
Successful DevOps deployment needs the agile development of 
software. DevOps is end-to-end automation in developing and 
delivering software. No one could approach it with a cookbook-
like approach, but most developers would benefit from improving 
connectivity between previously isolated creation and activity 
silos. Even though agile software development methodologies are 
more and more common, many organizations have discovered 
that they have not reached a frequent release rate, largely 
because of the various departmental features in silos. 
Organizations have shifted towards DevOps to remove these silos. 
Companies are increasingly introducing DevOps as digitizations 
continue. There are three different phases of the agile transition 
to DevOps: agile, ongoing integration, and constant delivery. 
Based on a comprehensive case study done in an enterprise with 
a long background of DevOps, we detect a fundamental 
disturbance in the soft ability and patterns of communication that 
software teams are supposed to possess.  
Keywords: 
DevOps, 
Automation, 
software 
engineering, 
configuration management, agile methodology 
I. 
 INTRODUCTION 
The 
distinctions 
between 
DevOps 
and 
Agile 
methodologies are very confusing. That is partly because many 
marketers define these terms loosely which waters down the exact 
meaning.  But it is not just marketing ambiguity that leads to the 
misunderstanding and confusion of concepts. It also adds to the 
misunderstanding that DevOps and Agile concentrate on 
principles rather than practical activities [1]. A software project 
involves the execution of tasks to achieve added value outcomes. 
The planning, implementation, and monitoring of these tasks 
would be the main function that project management plays. The 
business environment nowadays in terms of software & product 
design has evolved more rapidly. Project planning, evaluation, 
management of improvements, and quality control are some of 
the challenges that differentiate successful and failed projects. 
Agile methods are widely used and implemented worldwide to 
deal with these issues [1]. More software developers concentrate 
on agile development, thereby increasing the productivity of their 
projects and meeting the competitive demands of their customers. 
Agile methodology has been developed to address the problems 
faced by the conventional model and to offer project teams 
multiple possibilities during the development process. The 
methodologies for software development are changing and thus 
their application development is handled in short times (sprints) 
and other involving team members are modified through 
agile and DevOps methodologies [2]. This study will be focused 
on 
a 
qualitative 
analysis 
of DevOps 
and 
agile 
methodology responses.  The main focus will be to conduct a 
literature review on what other scholars have discovered when it 
comes to DevOps automation and Agile methodology and its 
impact on the current information technology industry. With this 
in mind, DevOps contributes to a greater understanding of the 
efficiency of information systems. 
II. 
LITERATURE REVIEW  
An analysis was done by Laanti, Salo, and Abrahamsson, 
Agile and DevOps are buzzing ideas that are commonly used by 
many organizations, but there is always an often overlap or 
ambiguity between the two [2]. Only one business model has 
emerged in software development, but they are implemented 
beyond software development to the organizational units. These 
approaches are not the same but are not enemies either. The use 
of Agile and DevOps in tandem is always the appropriate 
approach in a team, department, or entity to achieve change. To 
accept these theories requires being versatile on how they change 
continuously and to know that no one solution can solve all 
organizational needs. 
I. 
An Agile methodology 
Laanti, Salo, and Abrahamsson state that as software developers 
are aware of the immediate limitations of heavy-weight processes 
such as the Waterfall method, they are searching for a way to 
simplify and make tweaking of software more agile [2]. They 
have decided to give end-user input more chances to ensure they 
are on the right track. In the 1990s a large number of lightweight 
theories, including the famous Scrum and Kanban methods, were 
developed for software development. In 2001, the Agile Software 
Development Manifesto codified many of these concepts and put 
them within the framework of the advancement of agile software. 
According to Pedrycz, agile methodologies value the following: 
a) People-especially the teammates, clients, and their 
interactions — rather than tools and processes [3]. 
b) Immediacy-Functional 
applications instead 
of comprehensive documentation. 
c) Flexibility-To responds to and embraces change, rather 
than to a predetermined plan. 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3655581