www.ijcrt.org                                                                 © 2017 IJCRT | Volume 5, Issue 3 August 2017 | ISSN: 2320-2882 
IJCRT1133441 
International Journal of Creative Research Thoughts (IJCRT) www.ijcrt.org 
948 
 
B. Similarities 
 The concepts of both are centered upon how quickly 
software can be developed without harming customers nor 
operations. They both believe in quick software development. 
Both approaches emphasize speed and consistency [14]. Both are 
sufficiently malleable and therefore can be integrated into 
any business models and industries. Both DevOps and Agile are 
mutually complementary. Agile helps teams to prioritize the 
versatility, rapidity, and high quality of providing business value 
to customers [15]. DevOps offers from a technological point of 
view the underlying organizational culture and infrastructure. The 
complementary relationship is seen in this light. Well-informed 
project stakeholders and sprints will mean nothing if the 
underlying facilities collapse because of the differences in both 
development and production contexts [16]. The opposite is true, 
too. 
understanding 
of 
the 
two 
methodologies. 
 
Fig ii: Differences between Agile and DevOps methodologies [17]. 
Agile use implementation in large projects 
Agile was developed to assist businesses in meeting existing 
needs in the world of business and a positive and creative working 
climate. In the literature on how Agile strategies interact with 
progress, there has been very little documentation of the 
Organizational Process Improvement Program [18].  Further 
improvements in technological innovation can be shaped, for 
example, by corporate business models, concurrent design, 
multisectoral management, and proactive development [19]. 
Experts asked on what they felt were the major research issue in 
their disciplines at the 2010 XP meeting in Trondheim, 
Norway mentioned that the location of agile as well as large 
ventures has been the top of the list.  
IV. 
CHALLENGES: AGILE APPROACH 
Even though agile technology seems suitable for small 
teams with direct involvement, multiple barriers exist in large 
multi-site, multi-customer, and multi-project partnerships to 
incorporate these practices [20].  As a result, there was a list of 
transitional challenges and a list of almost forty clear barriers to 
agile use in large groups. Many of these problems have been 
identified by the degree of complexity, but others have been 
identified by the friction between agile and traditional societies; 
for example, contradictions between design processes, changes in 
subsystems that cannot be affected, complex life cycles, and 
difficulties in using agile heritage frames. Agile design 
approaches must be tailored to existing procedures in the 
enterprise [21]. 
V. 
AGILE AND DEVOPS CULTURE 
Although Agile doesn't always lead to DevOps, the 
culture changes in an organization are profound. An agile 
approach will encourage a change in development thinking[22]. 
Agile thinking encourages tiny, easy-to-use transitions that lead 
to big improvements over time, rather than thinking of growth as 
cumbersome [23]. Businesses of all sizes have studied how many 
units can increase their work in an agile way. Currently, some 
companies are Agile. DevOps can however bring about its 
cultural changes, such as improved communications and stable 
balance with transformation and flexibility [24]. The choice to use 
both concepts is an active decision, which many analysts think 
could lead to good decision making and therefore to a better 
culture of the business. 
VI. 
CONCLUSION 
Agile and DevOps are different, even though their correlations 
cause people to assume that they are the same. This is a disservice 
to both agile or DevOps. Both help teams to work faster and more 
efficiently, where quality work is delivered and contented 
customers. DevOps is a collaboration-building framework for the 
Technology and Operations team. This allows the consumers to 
quickly and automatedly deploy code for production. It helps to 
speed up the delivery of products and services through an 
organization. With these insights in mind, it is clear that both 
Agile and DevOps strive for a more efficient way to bring the end-
users' value— but from various angles. It can be defined as 
aligning development and IT operation. Agile seeks to improve 
efficiency for developers and release schedules, while DevOps 
brings together the operations team to allow continuous 
implementation and continuous delivery [25]. It has also helped 
to promote innovative thoughts beyond agile development and 
multi-functional (DevOps) as well as end-to-end processes that 
affect software companies and customers. Several organizations 
have effectively adopted agile techniques to speed up the 
development of applications. The days of waterfall strategies are 
long gone. Agile has started to grow slowly into other 
downstream sectors, including IT and operations, in the 
technology organization. Teams, simplified processes, improved 
feedback loops, and driven IT departments become much faster 
with an innovation that has a profound impact on the whole 
organization. To build on this performance, DevOps, and 
Continuous License (CD) have been built to support and improve 
agility, reactivity, and fast times for marketing over the entire life 
cycle of software delivery. However, software teams must have a 
high level of understanding of how to deploy and implement these 
methodologies. Agile and DevOps are by no means adversaries 
(or at least they are not intended). Throughout the agile revolution, 
they are much more allies than enemies. Both Agile and DevOps 
easily work in the same space either Inclusively or exclusively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3655581