A. Chandiramani et al. 
 
 
ISSN (Online) : 2583-1798 
9 
Journal of Management and Service Science 
(JMSS) 
A2Z Journals 
 
By running this command, Django has generated an SQLite database for us, default database in our settings, and it has added 
several tables to our database. we will know if our database was created if we see a new db.sqlite3 file in our project directory. 
One of the table Django gives you is a user table, which can be used to store users in our app. The app we are building does 
not need to have any users having the admin user will allow you to access the admin dashboard. To create the admin user, we 
will run the create superuser command. 
• 
python manage.py createsuperuser 
 
Give a username, email address, and a password for your admin user. Once you have done it, you will need to start your server 
again and navigate to admin dashboard. 
• 
python manage.py runserver 
 
Then go to server/admin. We can go to that page is because admin is set up in your urls.py. If we log in with the username, 
password we just created, we should see the Django Admin Dashboard. Groups & users represent two models Django give us 
access to. Model are just codes representations of tables in the database. Even though Django created additional tables, there 
is no need to access the rest of them directly, therefore no models were created. Now leave the admin dashboard for now & 
go to the code. We are required to create an app into our project for the weather app. 
5.1. Creating the App 
We are required to create a new application to handle everything regarding the weather. To create that app: 
 
• 
python manage.py startapp weather 
 
By startapp, Django has add a new directory & more files to our project. The newly files generated, let’s create another file 
called urls.py in the app directory. 
 
urls.py 
from django.urls import path 
 
urlpatterns = [ 
] 
 
This file is same as to the urls.py in our weather directory. The distinction is that this urls.py file contain all the URL that are 
relevant to this app itself. We are not specifying a URL yet, rather we can set up our project to recognize the app and route any 
URL specific to the app urls.py file. First, check the INSTALLED_APPS list and then add this app to the list. 
 
the_weather/the_weather/settings.py 
... 
 
INSTALLED_APPS = [ 
    'django.contrib.admin',