Journal of Management and Service Science, 2021,  
 
Vol. 01, Iss. 02, S. No. 005, pp. 1-17 
 
ISSN (Online): 2583-1798   
 
  
 
ISSN (Online) : 2583-1798 
1 
Journal of Management and Service Science 
(JMSS) 
A2Z Journals 
 
 
Management of Django Web Development 
in Python 
Ashish Chandiramani1, Pawan Singh2 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow Campus, India1, 2 
ashishchandiramani24@gmail.com1, pawansingh51279@gmail.com2 
 
How to cite this paper: A. Chandiramani and
P. Singh (2021) Management of Django Web
Development in Python. Journal of Manage-
ment and Service Science, 1(2), 5, pp. 1-17. 
https://doi.org/10.54060/JMSS/001.02.005 
Received: 28/02/2021 
Accepted: 12/03/2021 
Published: 25/07/2021 
Copyright © 2021 The Author(s).  
This work is licensed under the Creative
Commons Attribution International License
(CC BY 4.0). 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0
/ 
 
 
, Abstract 
Application Development is not only limited to the business or promotional field, but it 
also helps to provide the necessary services to the common people across the world by 
creating an interaction between the companies and the customers through the web-
site. It also creates a platform for the common people who have the ability to attract 
the audience using their talent. We can take the example of various blog writers, online 
councilors and fashion influencers who have a large audience because of their quality 
content and knowledge in their field. We have generally seen how the electronic com-
panies have marked their presence on the online platform via the website which ena-
bles the users to contact the company easily. Online retail companies interact with the 
users via website and provide the orders at the doorsteps of the people. There are var-
ious news agencies which had created their website which keeps the users updated 
with the latest national and international articles. The website development has helped 
to create a link between the people and the companies, but behind all these facilities 
there is a powerful language and commands that holds these computational activities 
and data transfers which helps to create a good interaction between the users and the 
website owners. Web developers are classified into Front-end and Back-end web devel-
opers, Front-end developers help to create an interactive interface that can be easily 
accessed by the users, whereas Back-end development deals with the main work that 
is done behind the screens. We can say that it helps to power the website by managing 
data transfer and other computational activities. In this project, the importance of 
Django and back-end web development is explained. Using the tools and commands of 
these languages we can make an interactive and user-friendly interface that can be 
easily accessed by people. Back-end was earlier known for limited purposes but now 
when it is explored thoroughly proved to be one of the best languages for website de-
velopment, gaming, Artificial Intelligence, and highly advanced mobile applications. 
Keywords 
Web Development, Django, Python, Backend 
Open Access