8 
 
2.1.2 
Integration testing  
 
Integration tests are the interaction between software and hardware components. 
Testing happens between multiple units. Verify functionality of combined units together. 
 
2.1.3 
Regression Testing 
 
Retesting of component or system to ensure that updates or changes have not made any prob-
lems and still works with its requirements.(Williams. L., 2006) 
It focuses on retesting the product. Checks that there are no new defects after same prob-
lems have been fixed; mostly done automatically sometimes manually.  
 
2.1.4 
Functional Testing 
 
Performed manually or automatically based on the specification, special functionality of the 
software or its part. Mostly done using these five points; suitability, security, accuracy and 
fulfillment. 
 
2.1.5 
System testing 
Product based testing of the entire complete combined system, which tests based on re-
quirements of all system parts. 
 
2.1.6 
Acceptance Testing 
Acceptance testing is the final phase of testing.  The purpose is to ensure that the product 
meets the standards of quality to be accepted by the client. Made from combination of tests; 
ensure that the product has right output from the production phase. It also focuses on things 
other than functionality that includes documentation and other items related to the product. 
The test verifies, does the product meet the customers demand and ensure correct delivery 
and shows the success of all solution.  
 
2.1.7 
Beta testing 
Beta testing is testing by potential users. All errors found, have to be reported to the 
development team. (Jenkins, N. 2008) 
 
3 
Agile  
 
Agile model concentrate more on interaction with the customer value. The main goal is to 
make flexible and efficient product by interacting with the client all the time while develop-
ing the process. 
The top priority of the agile manifesto is customer satisfaction based on early continuous de-
livery. The timescale is from two weeks to two months. The idea is that business people and