snapshot commits were then examined for CI/CD technology presence using the
previously described methodology.
After all repositories were processed, we cleaned the retrieved data. Any
snapshots from before January 1, 2012, were discarded, and the last snapshot
of each repository was set to the one used in the previous analysis. For some
snapshots, the GitHub API could not return a git tree. We attempted to process
these snapshots again to eliminate any momentary API malfunction. The orig-
inal detection method for GitHub Actions could lead to false detection when
other technologies were present in the snapshot, so we reprocessed all snap-
shots that had more than one technology detected and GitHub Actions present.
Lastly, we checked each snapshot’s date and detected technologies against the
detected technologies’ launch dates and removed snapshots where a technology
was detected before it was launched. If, at the end of these cleaning steps, a
repository was left without snapshots, it was discarded.
From an initial 197504 repositories selected for temporal analysis, we re-
trieved the CI/CD technology use history of 197410. For the 94 repositories
whose CI/CD technology history could not be retrieved, the reasons are as fol-
lows: the 19 repositories could not be processed in the initial snapshot retrieval
because they had either been deleted or gone private, in the data cleaning step,
another 39 repositories could not be processed because they had either been
deleted or gone private, and 36 were discarded because they had no snapshots
at the end of the cleaning steps.
4
RQ1:
What characterizes the current land-
scape of CI/CD?
By answering this RQ we intend to provide a clear and accurate overview of the
current usage of CI/CD technologies in the open-source realm.
CI/CD usage
We collected 612,557 created between 2012 and 2023, that is, between the be-
ginning of the establishment of DevOps and now. From these, 200,023, 32.7%,
contain at least one CI/CD technology.
This means about one third of the
repositories in the last twelve years have, or had, some CI/CD support.
In Fig. 2, we depict the distribution of technologies within CI/CD projects,
exclusively focusing on technologies whose usage exceeds 1% of the total repos-
itories containing CI/CD technologies. In the online appendix of this paper7,
we present a chart with all the technologies. In fact, we present several other
charts in this appendix. The figure indicates that GitHub Actions significantly
dominates the landscape, being present in more than half (57.8%) of the repos-
itories, with Travis trailing as the second most utilized technology (38.8%). In
7https://sites.google.com/view/msr2024
9