1 
Introduction
 
The work presented in this thesis was done based on requirements of Nokia Networks Network 
Company that is concentrating on providing fast and height standard network connections and 
solutions all over the world. Telecommunications is the core business since 1990’s this day’s 
concentrate on Network, location, and Nokia technologies.  
 
This work is happening in agile working environment focusing on integrating automation test-
ing. Apply new Continuous Integration (CI) environment for unit tests automation using Jen-
kins as a tool. To be able to compose this project, lots of issues needed to be solved and 
learned.  
 
This thesis is divided it two parts; first is background information and second the practical 
work. In theory part chapters 2,3,4,5 and 6 will be described shortly software testing itself 
and automation testing, second moving into Agile and Scrum frameworks that have been 
integrated at the same time. Third continuous integration and Jenkins as a continuous inte-
gration tool that used in this project for unit test automation. Robot Framework that is the 
actual software that was under testing. Finally chapter 7,8,9,10 setup of the integration envi-
ronment.  
 
The final goal of this project is an independently working CI environment for automated unit 
tests. 
 
2 
Software testing 
 
During the software development process, different tests in different stages of product de-
velopment are used. However, it does not mean that written code is a bed, it is because most 
applications are complex, and it is very difficult to see all possible problems in it. 
Tests are written based on the user needs and specification requirements. (Mathur A.P. 2008) 
 
Software development is a complex and long process, and it requires the use of different 
software testing types and tools. Testing methods change with time. As the field of software 
testing is growing, and it is becoming more complex. Automated testing increases develop-
ment speed as it allows short development cycle, saves time, human resources, and money. 
These days of software engineering automated testing is taking an important part in many 
development environments in software engineering. (Dustin. E., Rashka. J., Paul, J. 2008)